# NAME

pidfd_open - obtain a file descriptor that refers to a process

# LIBRARY

Standard C library (*libc*, *-lc*)

# SYNOPSIS

    #include <sys/syscall.h> /* Definition of SYS_* constants */
    #include <unistd.h>
    int syscall(SYS_pidfd_open, pid_t pid, unsigned int flags);

*Note*: glibc provides no wrapper for **pidfd_open**(), necessitating
the use of **syscall**(2).

# DESCRIPTION

The **pidfd_open**() system call creates a file descriptor. By default
the returned pidfd file descriptor will refer to a process
("thread-group leader"). Specifying **PIDFD_THREAD** in the *flags*
argument will instead make it refer to a specific thread.

Whether a *pidfd* refers to a thread-group leader or specific thread
will affect the behavior of **poll**(2) and **epoll**(2) as well as
**pidfd_send_signal**(2).

The file descriptor is returned as the function result; the
close-on-exec flag is set on the file descriptor.

## The *flags* mask

The *flags* argument either has the value 0, or contains the following
flags:

**PIDFD_NONBLOCK** (since Linux 5.10)  
Return a nonblocking file descriptor. If the process referred to by the
file descriptor has not yet terminated, then an attempt to wait on the
file descriptor using **waitid**(2) will immediately return the error
**EAGAIN** rather than blocking.

**PIDFD_THREAD** (since Linux v6.9)  
Create a pidfd that refers to a specific thread.

# RETURN VALUE

On success, **pidfd_open**() returns a file descriptor (a nonnegative
integer). On error, -1 is returned and *errno* is set to indicate the
error.

# ERRORS

**EINVAL**  
*flags* is not valid.

**EINVAL**  
*pid* is not valid.

**EMFILE**  
The per-process limit on the number of open file descriptors has been
reached (see the description of **RLIMIT_NOFILE** in **getrlimit**(2)).

**ENFILE**  
The system-wide limit on the total number of open files has been
reached.

**ENODEV**  
The anonymous inode filesystem is not available in this kernel.

**ENOMEM**  
Insufficient kernel memory was available.

**ESRCH**  
The process specified by *pid* does not exist.

# STANDARDS

Linux.

# HISTORY

Linux 5.3.

# NOTES

The following code sequence can be used to obtain a file descriptor for
the child of **fork**(2):

    pid = fork();
    if (pid > 0) {     /* If parent */
        pidfd = pidfd_open(pid, 0);
        ...
    }

Even if the child has already terminated by the time of the
**pidfd_open**() call, its PID will not have been recycled and the
returned file descriptor will refer to the resulting zombie process.
Note, however, that this is guaranteed only if the following conditions
hold true:

- the disposition of **SIGCHLD** has not been explicitly set to
  **SIG_IGN** (see **sigaction**(2));

- the **SA_NOCLDWAIT** flag was not specified while establishing a
  handler for **SIGCHLD** or while setting the disposition of that
  signal to **SIG_DFL** (see **sigaction**(2)); and

- the zombie process was not reaped elsewhere in the program (e.g.,
  either by an asynchronously executed signal handler or by **wait**(2)
  or similar in another thread).

If any of these conditions does not hold, then the child process (along
with a PID file descriptor that refers to it) should instead be created
using **clone**(2) with the **CLONE_PIDFD** flag.

## Use cases for PID file descriptors

A PID file descriptor returned by **pidfd_open**() (or by **clone**(2)
with the **CLONE_PID** flag) can be used for the following purposes:

- The **pidfd_send_signal**(2) system call can be used to send a signal
  to the process referred to by a PID file descriptor.

- A PID file descriptor can be monitored using **poll**(2),
  **select**(2), and **epoll**(7). When the process that it refers to
  terminates, these interfaces indicate the file descriptor as readable.
  Note, however, that in the current implementation, nothing can be read
  from the file descriptor (**read**(2) on the file descriptor fails
  with the error **EINVAL**).

- If *pidfd* refers to a thread-group leader then **poll**(2),
  **select**(2), and **epoll**(2) will notify when the last thread in
  the thread-group has exited. In other wrods, if the thread-group
  leader exits before any other threads in the thread-group leader then
  notification will be delayed until all other threads have exited.

- If *pidfd* refers to a specific thread via **pidfd_open**(2) using the
  **PIDFD_THREAD** flag or through **clone3**() using the
  **CLONE_PIDFD** together with **CLONE_THREAD** then **poll**(2),
  **select**(2), and **epoll**(2) will notify when the thread exits.

- If the PID file descriptor refers to a child of the calling process,
  then it can be waited on using **waitid**(2).

- The **pidfd_getfd**(2) system call can be used to obtain a duplicate
  of a file descriptor of another process referred to by a PID file
  descriptor.

- A PID file descriptor can be used as the argument of **setns**(2) in
  order to move into one or more of the same namespaces as the process
  referred to by the file descriptor.

- A PID file descriptor can be used as the argument of
  **process_madvise**(2) in order to provide advice on the memory usage
  patterns of the process referred to by the file descriptor.

The **pidfd_open**() system call is the preferred way of obtaining a PID
file descriptor for an already existing process. The alternative is to
obtain a file descriptor by opening a */proc/*pid directory. However,
the latter technique is possible only if the **proc**(5) filesystem is
mounted; furthermore, the file descriptor obtained in this way is *not*
pollable and can't be waited on with **waitid**(2).

# EXAMPLES

The program below opens a PID file descriptor for the process whose PID
is specified as its command-line argument. It then uses **poll**(2) to
monitor the file descriptor for process exit, as indicated by an
**EPOLLIN** event.

## Program source

    #define _GNU_SOURCE
    #include <poll.h>
    #include <stdio.h>
    #include <stdlib.h>
    #include <sys/syscall.h>
    #include <unistd.h>
    static int
    pidfd_open(pid_t pid, unsigned int flags)
    {
        return syscall(SYS_pidfd_open, pid, flags);
    }
    int
    main(int argc, char *argv[])
    {
        int            pidfd, ready;
        struct pollfd  pollfd;
        if (argc != 2) {
            fprintf(stderr, "Usage: %s <pid>\n", argv[0]);
            exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
        }
        pidfd = pidfd_open(atoi(argv[1]), 0);
        if (pidfd == -1) {
            perror("pidfd_open");
            exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
        }
        pollfd.fd = pidfd;
        pollfd.events = POLLIN;
        ready = poll(&pollfd, 1, -1);
        if (ready == -1) {
            perror("poll");
            exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
        }
        printf("Events (%#x): POLLIN is %sset\n", pollfd.revents,
               (pollfd.revents & POLLIN) ? "" : "not ");
        close(pidfd);
        exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
    }

# SEE ALSO

**clone**(2), **kill**(2), **pidfd_getfd**(2), **pidfd_send_signal**(2),
**poll**(2), **process_madvise**(2), **select**(2), **setns**(2),
**waitid**(2), **epoll**(7)
